- Hello and welcome to a code walkthrough for C programming for everybody.
The code we're walking through is some of the epilogue code where we're comparing kind
of what I did in my chapter six Kearney and O'Ritchie stuff to what Guido tells us was
the Python 1 and then later the Python 3.7 approach to dictionaries, lists, and strings.
So what I'm going to go through right in this one is the string.
So let's take a look at that code.
This is basically the code that is the string code.
Now the pattern that I'm using here is a chunked array of characters.
And so like if you look at it, the string has some data.
But what we're adding for this particular one was something that Guido was very obsessed
with in the early Python version, again from ABC.
And the idea is that we use this thing called reference counting.
And it means that if you sort of assign something, you don't always have to copy all the data.
You can kind of copy a pointer instead, but then you have to be careful that reference
count because the del operation has to know when the reference count goes to zero.
So this pretty much looks like the code that I wrote sort of for the K&R book to implement
it with some reference counting.
And the easiest thing to do is look at the main code here.
And so we create a new string.
We dump it.
We add an H character.
We add LOWorld as a string, and we dump it.
And then we're going to set it to a new value.
But then here's the new part right here.
We're going to create this assignment.
And so this we're creating, we have a variable called x, which is a pointer to a P1STR.
And we have a variable called y, which is also a pointer to a P1STR.
So what this is is this is P1STR_ASSIGN, and we're passing in a pointer.
And so what's going to happen here is this is like, I'm going to increment the reference
count.
You're going to see this.
It's going to increment the reference count because now we're going to have two variables,
x and y, that are literally pointing to the same string.
So let's even run this code, okay?
So I've got it run here.
And so what we see in that last bit, when we make all the top bit here, is all on the
string x.
But the interesting part here is where we say string x equals a completely new string,
and we're pointing out the location in memory that that is.
And then after the assignment statement, we see string y equals a completely new string,
and it's at the same location.
But what we've done is we have incremented the reference count.
Then if you look at the main code, we del x, which was the original P1STR del x, which
is the original one.
And all we do is we decrement the reference count, but we don't actually deallocate data.
And then we still have the string y.
We shouldn't have the string x.
But then what happens when we delete y at the very end here, P1STR_DEL_Y, then it actually
frees the data.
And so the idea is we can copy a reference without copying all the data, have x pointing
to it, y pointing to it, with a reference count of 2.
And then we can free either x or y.
Instead of throwing away the data, that decrements the reference count.
So let's just sort of take a bit of a look.
Now most of this is the same as what we covered.
Like if we look at sort of the constructor, P1STR new, we allocate a buffer.
We allocate the object.
And then we allocate 10 bytes.
And we tell it that it's 10 long.
And we put a new end of string in there.
And we set the reference count to 1.
So as soon as we create it, we assume that this new is going to be assigned into a variable.
And then we make the reference count be 1.
And so if you look at the land and the dump and the et cetera, and you look at the append,
we see the append is pretty much a clone of what I did, where if we don't have enough
space, we allocate another block of 10, as Guido calls this chunking in the video.
And then we reallocate it.
And then we've got 10 more.
And so we can stick our character in to the end of it and add 1 to it.
And then we null terminate the string.
So that code is identical to what I did in the Carnegie and Ritchie book.
And so let's look at the assign code.
So this is the interesting thing, where P1STR_ASSIGN, we have one pointer.
And we're going to return this pointer.
So we have two variables pointing to the same block of dynamically allocated memory.
So when we're doing this assignment statement, in effect, y equals x, inside the object,
we don't need to worry too much about y or x.
But we do need to know that we are now referenced two places.
So every time we reference at a second or third reference, we just add 1 to the reference
count.
So self arrow refs plus plus.
And then we return it.
So then if we look at the code in the main program, where we're saying struct P1STR star
y equals P1STR_ASSIGN x, we could have said y equals x.
But we wanted to record the fact that we've added a reference so that we know that that
has reference count of 2.
So we don't inadvertently free the wrong thing.
And then the only other place that this gets interesting is in the Dell method.
So if we go into the Dell method, what's cool about this?
And this is where reference counts-- and so in our main code, we delete y with an underscore
Dell method.
We delete x.
We can do all that stuff.
And it's inside the object where these reference counts are being resolved.
And so what's cool about this is we're saying, OK, we're going to Dell x, which was the original
thing that we assigned it into.
And if the reference are greater than 1, we don't actually free any data.
We just decrement the reference count, and we're done.
And so that's where we see in the output, we see decrementing reference.
And you see all these addresses are the same-- 0, x, 6, 0, blah, blah, blah, 9, 1, c, 0.
And so they're being decremented.
And so the first free decrements it.
And that goes from 2 to 1, in this case, because the underscore assign incremented it.
And then the underscore Dell decremented it.
But then when we get the ref count to 1, that means we're, in effect, freeing the last reference.
So it prints out freeing reference.
And you can see it says freeing.
We're actually freeing the data.
And so that's where we do the free of self data.
And then we free the self to get rid of it, which is the code we did before.
And so the real essence of this code is the obsession with reference counting.
And that has to do with the fact that you want to be able to point multiple places to
the same string without wasting extra memory just to make a bunch of copies for no real
purpose.
So when you're kind of making a copy that points to the original, then you have to increment
the reference count and decrement it.
And so in the rest of these sample code, I will not add reference counting to it because
we're just going to look at the underlying data structures.
But it's really important to understand that reference counting was essential to the ABC
implementation and Guido's C++ implementation and Python 1.0's implementation.
It was all about reference counting to save very scarce memory so that you could point
to the same string many times, and the reference counts could get very high, especially strings
that were constants.
So reference counting is important, and this is just-- you can take a look at this code
and compare it to the KR code that I built.
Reference counting is an important part of Python.